# User Input and While Loop

## How the input() Function Works
The input() function pauses your program and waits for the user to enter some text.
```py
message = input("Tell me something, and I will repeat it back to you: ")
print(message)
```
## Writing Clear Prompts
Each time you use the input() function, you should include a clear, easy-tofollow prompt that tells the user exactly what kind of information you’re looking for. Any statement that tells the user what to enter should work. For example:
```py
name = input("Please enter your name: ")
print(f"\nHello, {name}!")
```

## Using int() to Accept Numerical Input
```py
age = input("How old are you? ")
21
```

The user enters the number 21, but when we ask Python for the value of age, it returns '21', the string representation of the numerical value entered.
We know Python interpreted the input as a string because the number is now enclosed in quotes. If all you want to do is print the input, this works well. But if you try to use the input as a number, you’ll get an error:
```py
>>> age = input("How old are you? ")
How old are you? 21
age >= 18
Traceback (most recent call last):
File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
TypeError: unorderable types: str() >= int()
```

We can resolve this issue by using the int() function, which tells Python to treat the input as a numerical value. The int() function converts a string representation of a number to a numerical representation,as shown here:
```py
age = input("How old are you? ")
How old are you? 21
age = int(age)
age >= 18
True
```

```py
height = input("How tall are you, in inches? ")
height = int(height)
if height >= 48:
    print("\nYou're tall enough to ride!")
else:
    print("\nYou'll be able to ride when you're a little older.")
```

## The Modulo Operator

A useful tool for working with numerical information is the modulo operator (%),
which divides one number by another number and returns the remainder:
```py
4 % 3
1
5 % 3
2
6 % 3
0
7 % 3
1
```

```py
number = input("Enter a number, and I'll tell you if it's even or odd: ")
number = int(number)
if number % 2 == 0:
    print(f"\nThe number {number} is even.")
else:
    print(f"\nThe number {number} is odd.")
```

## Practice
1. Rental Car: 

Write a program that asks the user what kind of rental car they
would like. Print a message about that car, such as “Let me see if I can find you
a Subaru.”

2. Restaurant Seating: 
   
Write a program that asks the user how many people are in their dinner group. If the answer is more than eight, print a message saying they’ll have to wait for a table. Otherwise, report that their table is ready.

3. Multiples of Ten: 
   
Ask the user for a number, and then report whether the number is a multiple of 10 or not.

## Introducing while Loops

The for loop takes a collection of items and executes a block of code once for each item in the collection. In contrast, the while loop runs as long as, or while, a certain condition is true.

## The while Loop in Action

