## Comments

Comments are an extremely useful feature in most programming languages. 
Everything you’ve written in your programs so far is Python code.
As your programs become longer and more complicated, you should add
notes within your programs that describe your overall approach to the
problem you’re solving. 
A comment allows you to write notes in English
within your programs. 

```py
# Say hello to everyone.
print("Hello Python people!")
```

# List 

A list is a collection of items in a particular order. You can make a list that
includes the letters of the alphabet, the digits from 0–9, or the names of
all the people in your family. You can put anything you want into a list, and
the items in your list don’t have to be related in any particular way. Because
a list usually contains more than one element, it’s a good idea to make the
name of your list plural, such as letters, digits, or names.

In Python, square brackets ([]) indicate a list, and individual elements
in the list are separated by commas. Here’s a simple example of a list that
contains a few kinds of fruits:

```py
fruits = ['apple', 'banana', 'cherry', 'strawberry']
print(fruits)
```

## Accessing Elements in a List

Lists are ordered collections, so you can access any element in a list by
telling Python the position, or index, of the item desired. To access an element in a list, write the name of the list followed by the index of the item
enclosed in square brackets.

```py
fruits[0]

print(fruits[0].title())

print(fruits[-1])
```

Index Positions Start at 0, Not 1

## Using Individual Values from a List

```py
message = f"My favorite friut is {fruits[0].title()}."
print(message)
```


## Changing, Adding, and Removing Elements

### Modifying Elements in a List

```py
motorcycles = ['honda', 'yamaha', 'suzuki']
print(motorcycles)
motorcycles[0] = 'kawasaki'
print(motorcycles)
```

### Adding Elements to a List

#### Appending Elements to the End of a List

```py
motorcycles = ['honda', 'yamaha', 'suzuki']
print(motorcycles)
u motorcycles.append('kawasaki')
print(motorcycles)

motorcycles = []
motorcycles.append('honda')
motorcycles.append('yamaha')
motorcycles.append('suzuki')
print(motorcycles)
```

#### Inserting Elements into a List

```py
motorcycles = ['honda', 'yamaha', 'suzuki']
motorcycles.insert(0, 'kawasaki')
print(motorcycles)
```

https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html


### Removing Elements from a List

#### Removing an Item Using the del Statement

```py
motorcycles = ['honda', 'yamaha', 'suzuki']
print(motorcycles)
del motorcycles[0]
print(motorcycles)
```
### Removing an Item Using the pop() Method

The pop() method removes the last item in a list, but it lets you work
with that item after removing it. 

```py
motorcycles = ['honda', 'yamaha', 'suzuki']
print(motorcycles)
popped_motorcycle = motorcycles.pop()
print(motorcycles)
print(popped_motorcycle)
```

Popping Items from any Position in a List

```py
first_owned = motorcycles.pop(0)
print(f"The first motorcycle I owned was a {first_owned.title()}.")
```