# Working with lists

## Looping Through an Entire List

```py
names = ['alice', 'david', 'carolina']
for name in names:
  print(name)
```

```py
names = ['alice', 'david', 'carolina']
for name in names:
  print(f"My name is {name.title()}. ")
```

```py
names = ['alice', 'david', 'carolina']
for name in names:
  print(f"My name is {name.title()}. ")
  print("What is your name?")
```

```py
names = ['alice', 'david', 'carolina']
for name in names:
  print(f"My name is {name.title()}. ")
  print("What is your name?")
print("See you tomorrow.")
```

## Avoiding Indentation Errors

Python uses indentation to determine how a line, or group of lines, is related
to the rest of the program.

As you begin to write code that relies on proper indentation, you’ll
need to watch for a few common indentation errors. For example, people
sometimes indent lines of code that don’t need to be indented or forget
to indent lines that need to be indented. Seeing examples of these errors
now will help you avoid them in the future and correct them when they do
appear in your own programs.

## Practise

Pizzas: Think of at least three kinds of your favorite pizza. Store these
pizza names in a list, and then use a for loop to print the name of each pizza.
•	 Modify your for loop to print a sentence using the name of the pizza
instead of printing just the name of the pizza. For each pizza you should
have one line of output containing a simple statement like I like pepperoni
pizza.
•	 Add a line at the end of your program, outside the for loop, that states
how much you like pizza. The output should consist of three or more lines
about the kinds of pizza you like and then an additional sentence, such as
I really love pizza!

**Example:**

```py
favorite_pizzas = ['pepperoni', 'hawaiian', 'veggie']

# Print the names of all the pizzas.
for pizza in favorite_pizzas:
    print(pizza)

print("\n")

# Print a sentence about each pizza.
for pizza in favorite_pizzas:
    print(f"I really love {pizza} pizza!")

print("\nI really love pizza!")
```

## Making Numerical Lists

Using the range() Function
Python’s range() function makes it easy to generate a series of numbers.
For example, you can use the range() function to print a series of numbers
like this:
```py
for value in range(1, 5):
  print(value)
```

range() function:
https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#range

