# Chapter 1 Variable and Simple Data Type
Variable: 变量
Data type: 数据类型


## Data type 1. String(字符串)
Definition:
    String: a series of characters
    
How to use:
    Anything in quotes mark is called String
    ("", '')
```    
Example:
    fruit1 = "apple"
    fruit2 = 'banana'
    (variable) = (value) -> (value or avriable's data type is String)
    fruit1 = "pear"
    print => Tom says 'I am a good boy.'
    Two methods: print("Tom says 'I am a good boy.'"), print('Tom says "I am a good boy."')
```

### Changing Case in a String with Methods
    
A method is an action that Python can perform on a piece of data. The dot(.) after name in name.title() tells Python to make the title() method act on the variable name. 

### Using Variables in Strings

```py
# Usage: 
f"{variable}"
```

```py
first_name = "ada"
last_name = "lovelace"
full_name = f"{first_name} {last_name}"
print(full_name)
```

Connect with two strings:

```py
# print(variable + variable)
print(first_name + last_name)

# print(variable + "abc" + variable)
print(first_name + " Smith " + last_name)
```


## Data type2. Number(数字)

### 1. Integer

```
可以运算: + - * /

乘方 **:
  3**3=27
  (-1)**3=-1
  (-2)**3=-8
```
  
### 2. Float

Python calls any number with a decimal point a float. This term is used
in most programming languages, and it refers to the fact that a decimal
point can appear at any position in a number. 

```
1.0
1.123
-1.23456

+ - * / **
```

### Integers and Floats

When you divide any two numbers, even if they are integers that result in a
whole number, you’ll always get a float

```py
2 / 2 = 1.0
```

If you mix an integer and a float in any other operation, you’ll get a
float as well

```py
5 * 2.0 = 10.0
```
    
### Underscores in Numbers
When you’re writing long numbers, you can group digits using underscores
to make large numbers more readable:
```py
universe_age = 14_000_000_000
```
When you print a number that was defined using underscores, Python
prints only the digits:
```py
print(universe_age)
14000000000
```

# Homework

1. Personal Message: Use a variable to represent a person's name, and print
a message to that person. Your message should be simple, such as, "Hello Eric,
would you like to learn some Python today?"

2. Name Cases: Use a variable to represent a person's name, and then print
that person's name in lowercase, uppercase, and title case.

3. Famous Quote: Find a quote from a famous person you admire. Print the
quote and the name of its author. Your output should look something like the
following, including the quotation marks:
```
Albert Einstein once said, "A person who never made a mistake never tried anything new."
```
