## Using if Statements with Lists

### Checking for Special Items
The pizzeria displays a message
whenever a topping is added to your pizza, as it’s being made. The code for
this action can be written very efficiently by making a list of toppings the
customer has requested and using a loop to announce each topping as it’s
added to the pizza:

```py
requested_toppings = ['mushrooms', 'green peppers', 'extra cheese']
for requested_topping in requested_toppings:
  print(f"Adding {requested_topping}.")
print("\nFinished making your pizza!")
```

But what if the pizzeria runs out of green peppers? An if statement
inside the for loop can handle this situation appropriately:

```py
requested_toppings = ['mushrooms', 'green peppers', 'extra cheese']
for requested_topping in requested_toppings:
  if requested_topping == 'green peppers':
    print("Sorry, we are out of green peppers right now.")
  else:
    print(f"Adding {requested_topping}.")
print("\nFinished making your pizza!")
```

### Checking That a List Is Not Empty

When the name of a list is used in an if statement, Python returns True if the list contains at least one item; an empty list evaluates to False. 

```py
requested_toppings = []
if requested_toppings:
  for requested_topping in requested_toppings:
    print(f"Adding {requested_topping}.")
  print("\nFinished making your pizza!")
else:
print("Are you sure you want a plain pizza?")
```

### Using Multiple Lists

People will ask for just about anything, especially when it comes to pizza toppings. What if a customer actually wants french fries on their pizza? You can use lists and if statements to make sure your input makes sense before you act on it.

```py
available_toppings = ['mushrooms', 'olives', 'green peppers', 'pepperoni', 'pineapple', 'extra cheese']
requested_toppings = ['mushrooms', 'french fries', 'extra cheese']
for requested_topping in requested_toppings:
    if requested_topping in available_toppings:
        print(f"Adding {requested_topping}.")
    else:
        print(f"Sorry, we don't have {requested_topping}.")
print("\nFinished making your pizza!")
```

## Prictise
1. Hello Admin: Make a list of five or more usernames, including the name 'admin'. Imagine you are writing code that will print a greeting to each user after they log in to a website. Loop through the list, and print a greeting to each user:
•	 If the username is 'admin', print a special greeting, such as Hello admin,
would you like to see a status report?
•	 Otherwise, print a generic greeting, such as Hello Jaden, thank you for
logging in again.

```py
usernames = ['eric', 'willie', 'admin', 'erin', 'ever']

for username in usernames:
    if username == 'admin':
        print("Hello admin, would you like to see a status report?")
    else:
        print(f"Hello {username}, thank you for loggin in again!")
```

2. No Users: Add an if test to hello_admin.py to make sure the list of users is not empty.
•	 If the list is empty, print the message We need to find some users!
•	 Remove all of the usernames from your list, and make sure the correct message is printed.

```py
usernames = []

if usernames:
    for username in usernames:
        if username == 'admin':
            print("Hello admin, would you like to see a status report?")
        else:
            print(f"Hello {username}, thank you for loggin in again!")
else:
    print("We need to find some users!")
```

3. Ordinal Numbers: Ordinal numbers indicate their position in a list, such as 1st or 2nd. Most ordinal numbers end in th, except 1, 2, and 3.
•	 Store the numbers 1 through 9 in a list.
•	 Loop through the list.
•	 Use an if-elif-else chain inside the loop to print the proper ordinal ending for each number. Your output should read "1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th 8th 9th", and each result should be on a separate line.

```py
numbers = list(range(1,10))

for number in numbers:
    if number == 1:
        print("1st")
    elif number == 2:
        print("2nd")
    elif number == 3:
        print("3rd")
    else:
        print(f"{number}th")
```

#### Homework(hint: see Using Multiple Lists)

Checking Usernames: Do the following to create a program that simulates how websites ensure that everyone has a unique username.
• Make a list of five or more usernames called current_users.
• Make another list of five usernames called new_users. Make sure one or two of the new usernames are also in the current_users list.
• Loop through the new_users list to see if each new username has already been used. If it has, print a message that the person will need to enter a new username. If a username has not been used, print a message saying that the username is available.
• Make sure your comparison is case insensitive. If 'John' has been used, 'JOHN' should not be accepted. (To do this, you’ll need to make a copy of current_users containing the lowercase versions of all existing users.)
