## Checking Whether a Value Is in a List
Sometimes it’s important to check whether a list contains a certain value before taking an action. For example, you might want to check whether a new username already exists in a list of current usernames before completing someone’s registration on a website. In a mapping project, you might want to check whether a submitted location already exists in a list of known locations.

```py
requested_toppings = ['mushrooms', 'onions', 'pineapple']
>>> 'mushrooms' in requested_toppings
True
>>> 'pepperoni' in requested_toppings
False
```

# Checking Whether a Value Is Not in a List
Other times, it’s important to know if a value does not appear in a list. 
You can use the keyword not in this situation.

```py
banned_users = ['andrew', 'carolina', 'david']
user = 'marie'
if user not in banned_users:
  print(f"{user.title()}, you can post a response if you wish.")
```

# Boolean Expressions
A Boolean expression is just another name for a conditional test. A Boolean value is either True or False, just like the value of a conditional expression after it has been evaluated.
Boolean values are often used to keep track of certain conditions, such as whether a game is running or whether a user can edit certain content on a website:
```
game_active = True
can_edit = False
```
Boolean values provide an efficient way to track the state of a program or a particular condition that is important in your program.

# if Statements
## Simple if Statements
The simplest kind of if statement has one test and one action:
```py
if conditional_test:
  do something
```

Example:
```py
age = 19
if age >= 18:
  print("You are old enough to vote!")
```

## if-else Statements
Often, you’ll want to take one action when a conditional test passes and a different action in all other cases. Python’s if-else syntax makes this possible.
An if-else block is similar to a simple if statement, but the else statement allows you to define an action or set of actions that are executed when the conditional test fails.

```py
age = 17
if age >= 18:
  print("You are old enough to vote!")
  print("Have you registered to vote yet?")
else:
  print("Sorry, you are too young to vote.")
  print("Please register to vote as soon as you turn 18!")
```

## The if-elif-else Chain
Often, you’ll need to test more than two possible situations, and to evaluate these you can use Python’s if-elif-else syntax. Python executes only one block in an if-elif-else chain. It runs each conditional test in order until one passes. When a test passes, the code following that test is executed and Python skips the rest of the tests.
Many real-world situations involve more than two possible conditions.
For example, consider an amusement park that charges different rates for
different age groups:
•	 Admission for anyone under age 4 is free.
•	 Admission for anyone between the ages of 4 and 18 is $25.
•	 Admission for anyone age 18 or older is $40.

```py
age = 12
if age < 4:
  print("Your admission cost is $0.")
elif age < 18:
  print("Your admission cost is $25.")
else:
  print("Your admission cost is $40.")
```

concise:
```py
age = 12
if age < 4:
  price = 0
elif age < 18:
  price = 25
else:
  price = 40
print(f"Your admission cost is ${price}.")
```