## Answer for the practice on 20230221

```py
current_users = ['eric', 'willie', 'admin', 'erin', 'Ever']
new_users = ['sarah', 'Willie', 'PHIL', 'ever', 'Iona']

current_users_lower = [user.lower() for user in current_users]

for new_user in new_users:
    if new_user.lower() in current_users_lower:
        print(f"Sorry {new_user}, that name is taken.")
    else:
        print(f"Great, {new_user} is still available.")
```

# Chapter 6 Dictionary

## A Simple Dictionary

Consider a game featuring aliens that can have different colors and point values. This simple dictionary stores information about a particular alien:
```py
alien_0 = {'color': 'green', 'points': 5}
print(alien_0['color'])
print(alien_0['points'])
```

## Working with Dictionaries
A dictionary in Python is a collection of key-value pairs. Each key is connected to a value, and you can use a key to access the value associated with that key.
A key’s value can be a number, a string, a list, or even another dictionary.
In fact, you can use any object that you can create in Python as a value in a dictionary.
In Python, a dictionary is wrapped in braces, {}, with a series of keyvalue pairs inside the braces.

A key-value pair is a set of values associated with each other. When you provide a key, Python returns the value associated with that key. Every key is connected to its value by a colon, and individual key­value pairs are separated by commas. You can store as many key­value pairs as you want in a dictionary.

## Accessing Values in a Dictionary
To get the value associated with a key, give the name of the dictionary and
then place the key inside a set of square brackets, as shown here:
```py
alien_0 = {'color': 'green'}
print(alien_0['color'])
```

## Adding New Key-Value Pairs
```py
alien_0['x_position'] = 0
alien_0['y_position'] = 25
print(alien_0)
```

## Starting with an Empty Dictionary
```py
alien_0 = {}
alien_0['color'] = 'green'
alien_0['points'] = 5
print(alien_0)
```

## Modifying Values in a Dictionary
For a more interesting example, let’s track the position of an alien that can move at different speeds. We’ll store a value representing the alien’s current speed and then use it to determine how far to the right the alien
should move:
```py
alien_0 = {'x_position': 0, 'y_position': 25, 'speed': 'medium'}
print(f"Original position: {alien_0['x_position']}")

# Move the alien to the right.
# Determine how far to move the alien based on its current speed.
if alien_0['speed'] == 'slow':
    x_increment = 1
elif alien_0['speed'] == 'medium':
    x_increment = 2
else:
    # This must be a fast alien.
    x_increment = 3

# The new position is the old position plus the increment.
v alien_0['x_position'] = alien_0['x_position'] + x_increment
print(f"New position: {alien_0['x_position']}")
```

## Removing Key-Value Pairs
```py
alien_0 = {'color': 'green', 'points': 5}
print(alien_0)
del alien_0['points']
print(alien_0)
```

## Using get() to Access Values
Using keys in square brackets to retrieve the value you’re interested in from a dictionary might cause one potential problem: if the key you ask for doesn’t exist, you’ll get an error.
Let’s see what happens when you ask for the point value of an alien that doesn’t have a point value set:

```py
alien_0 = {'color': 'green', 'speed': 'slow'}
print(alien_0['points'])
```

For dictionaries, specifically, you can use the get() method to set a default value that will be returned if the requested key doesn’t exist. 
The get() method requires a key as a first argument. As a second optional argument, you can pass the value to be returned if the key doesn’t
exist:
```py
alien_0 = {'color': 'green', 'speed': 'slow'}
point_value = alien_0.get('points', 'No point value assigned.')
print(point_value)
```

## Practice

### 1. Person: 

Use a dictionary to store information about a person you know.
Store their first name, last name, age, and the city in which they live.
You should have keys such as first_name, last_name, age, and city. Print each piece of information stored in your dictionary.

### 2. Favorite Numbers: 

Use a dictionary to store people’s favorite numbers.
Think of five names, and use them as keys in your dictionary. Think of a favorite number for each person, and store each as a value in your dictionary.
Print each person’s name and their favorite number. For even more fun, poll a few friends and get some actual data for your program

### 3. Glossary: 

A Python dictionary can be used to model an actual dictionary.
However, to avoid confusion, let’s call it a glossary.

- Think of five programming words you've learned about in the previous chapters. Use these words as the keys in your glossary, and store their meanings as values.

- Print each word and its meaning as neatly formatted output. You might print the word followed by a colon and then its meaning, or print the word on one line and then print its meaning indented on a second line. Use the newline character (\n) to insert a blank line between each word-meaning pair in your output.

## Looping Through a Dictionary

### Looping Through All Key-Value Pairs

```py
user_0 = {
'username': 'efermi',
'first': 'enrico',
'last': 'fermi',
}
for key, value in user_0.items():
    print(f"\nKey: {key}")
    print(f"Value: {value}")
```

```py
favorite_languages = {
'jen': 'python',
'sarah': 'c',
'edward': 'ruby',
'phil': 'python',
}
for name, language in favorite_languages.items():
    print(f"{name.title()}'s favorite language is {language.title()}.")
```

### Looping Through All the Keys in a Dictionary

The keys() method is useful when you don’t need to work with all of the values in a dictionary. Let’s loop through the favorite_languages dictionary and print the names of everyone who took the poll:
```py
favorite_languages = {
'jen': 'python',
'sarah': 'c',
'edward': 'ruby',
'phil': 'python',
}
for name in favorite_languages.keys():
    print(name.title())
```

### Looping Through a Dictionary’s Keys in a Particular Order
```py
for name in sorted(favorite_languages.keys()):
    print(f"{name.title()}, thank you for taking the poll.")
```

### Looping Through All Values in a Dictionary
```py
print("The following languages have been mentioned:")
for language in favorite_languages.values():
    print(language.title())
```