# Function

In this chapter you’ll learn to write functions, which are named blocks of code that are designed to do one specific job.
When you want to perform a particular task that you’ve defined in a function, you call the function responsible for it. If you need to perform that task.

```py
def greet_user():
"""Display a simple greeting."""
  print("Hello!")
greet_user()
```

This example shows the simplest structure of a function. The first line uses the keyword def to inform Python that you’re defining a function. This is the function definition, which tells Python the name of the function and, if applicable, what kind of information the function needs to do its job. 
The parentheses hold that information. In this case, the name of the function is greet_user(), and it needs no information to do its job, so its parentheses are empty. (Even so, the parentheses are required.) Finally, the definition ends in a colon.

Any indented lines that follow def greet_user(): make up the body of the function. 

## Passing Information to a Function

Modified slightly, the function greet_user() can not only tell the user Hello!
but also greet them by name. For the function to do this, you enter username in the parentheses of the function’s definition at def greet_user(). By adding username here you allow the function to accept any value of username you specify. The function now expects you to provide a value for username each
time you call it. When you call greet_user(), you can pass it a name, such as 'jesse', inside the parentheses:

```py
def greet_user(username):
"""Display a simple greeting."""
  print(f"Hello, {username.title()}!")
greet_user('jesse')
```

## Arguments and Parameters

In the preceding greet_user() function, we defined greet_user() to require a value for the variable username. Once we called the function and gave it the information (a person’s name), it printed the right greeting.
The variable username in the definition of greet_user() is an example of a parameter, a piece of information the function needs to do its job. 
The value 'jesse' in greet_user('jesse') is an example of an argument. 
An argument is a piece of information that’s passed from a function call to a function.
When we call the function, we place the value we want the function to work with in parentheses. 
In this case the argument 'jesse' was passed to the function greet_user(), and the value was assigned to the parameter username.

## Positional Arguments
When you call a function, Python must match each argument in the function call with a parameter in the function definition. The simplest way to do this is based on the order of the arguments provided. Values matched up this way are called positional arguments.
To see how this works, consider a function that displays information about pets. 
The function tells us what kind of animal each pet is and the pet’s name, as shown here:
```py
def describe_pet(animal_type, pet_name):
"""Display information about a pet."""
  print(f"\nI have a {animal_type}.")
  print(f"My {animal_type}'s name is {pet_name.title()}.")
describe_pet('hamster', 'harry')
```

### Multiple Function Calls
You can call a function as many times as needed. Describing a second, different pet requires just one more call to describe_pet():
```py
def describe_pet(animal_type, pet_name):
"""Display information about a pet."""
  print(f"\nI have a {animal_type}.")
  print(f"My {animal_type}'s name is {pet_name.title()}.")
describe_pet('hamster', 'harry')
describe_pet('dog', 'willie')
```

Calling a function multiple times is a very efficient way to work. 
The code describing a pet is written once in the function. 
Then, anytime you want to describe a new pet, you call the function with the new pet’s information. Even if the code for describing a pet were to expand to ten lines, you could still describe a new pet in just one line by calling the function again.

### Order Matters in Positional Arguments
You can get unexpected results if you mix up the order of the arguments in a function call when using positional arguments

## Keyword Arguments
A keyword argument is a name-value pair that you pass to a function. 
You directly associate the name and the value within the argument, so when you pass the argument to the function, there’s no confusion。
```py
def describe_pet(animal_type, pet_name):
"""Display information about a pet."""
  print(f"\nI have a {animal_type}.")
  print(f"My {animal_type}'s name is {pet_name.title()}.")
describe_pet(animal_type='hamster', pet_name='harry')
```

The order of keyword arguments doesn’t matter because Python
knows where each value should go. The following two function calls are
equivalent:
```py
describe_pet(animal_type='hamster', pet_name='harry')
describe_pet(pet_name='harry', animal_type='hamster')
```

## Default Values
When writing a function, you can define a default value for each parameter.
If an argument for a parameter is provided in the function call, Python uses the argument value. 
If not, it uses the parameter’s default value.

For example, if you notice that most of the calls to describe_pet() are being used to describe dogs, you can set the default value of animal_type to 'dog'. Now anyone calling describe_pet() for a dog can omit that information:
```py
def describe_pet(pet_name, animal_type='dog'):
"""Display information about a pet."""
  print(f"\nI have a {animal_type}.")
  print(f"My {animal_type}'s name is {pet_name.title()}.")
describe_pet(pet_name='willie')
describe_pet('willie')
```

## TRY IT YOURSELF
Shirts: Write a function called make_shirt() that accepts a size and the text of a message that should be printed on the shirt. The function should print a sentence summarizing the size of the shirt and the message printed on it.
Call the function once using positional arguments to make a shirt. Call the function a second time using keyword arguments.

sample answer:
```py
def make_shirt(size, message):
    """Summarize the shirt that's going to be made."""
    print(f"\nI'm going to make a {size} t-shirt.")
    print(f'It will say, "{message}"')

make_shirt('large', 'I love Python!')
make_shirt(message="Readability counts.", size='medium')
```

Large Shirts: Modify the make_shirt() function so that shirts are large by default with a message that reads I love Python. 
Make a large shirt and a medium shirt with the default message, and a shirt of any size with a different
message.

sample answer:
```py
def make_shirt(size='large', message='I love Python!'):
    """Summarize the shirt that's going to be made."""
    print(f"\nI'm going to make a {size} t-shirt.")
    print(f'It will say, "{message}"')

make_shirt()
make_shirt(size='medium')
make_shirt('small', 'Programmers are loopy.')
```
